---
title: 'A Salsa Lesson'
date: 2020-12-28 00:00:00
featured_image: '/images/Post 2.jpg'
---

**If you're tempted to think dance, then think again. Or, just keep reading.**

I *burnt* a pan last evening. An *almost* new, paid-a-fortune-for Le Creuset Saute Pan. Burnt the enamel. Panicked, I scrubbed hard, with soap, then oil. Then I browsed through the internet for recipes to clean the burnt enamel, boiled some baking soda, then scrubbed harder only to have the enamel wash away with the remains of the burns.  

Did I see it coming? Well, I wouldn’t say an unequivocal No. Can't, actually. I was using the pan to intentionally char some veggies for a salsa recipe that I was so passionately wanting to make. After the pan had gotten burnt, the entire evening I was in regret of making the salsa, what a shame for the salsa turned out pretty good. Words of a highly critical husband, so can't disagree. But not the point. May be it is? Anyways, I was in regret of scrubbing (scrubbing it hard, dear sister, know what I mean?) the pan much prior to watching those videos. Prior to reading about burnt bottoms. Prior to scrubbing the pan way too hard for its own enamel’s good. In deep, deep, deep regret. My saute pan, you beauty! My saute pan, the one that I spent days planning to buy, spent hours researching sizes. Most importantly, the one that I spent hours deciding which color would be the perfect fit to my new kitchen. Now gone too soon.

Can I still use the pan, sure (only make sure to add five tablespoons oil and please be warned to constantly scratch the bottom of the pan with a wooden spatula to avoid any sticking). Will I still feel the same joy cooking food in it, in my no-longer-enameled-may-be-my-husband-can-use-for-his-experiments pan? Boy, moments like these remind of the times that I failed to take a moment and express gratitude. The joy of human regret!

Anyways, what’s done was done and I was too tired to lose sleep over that last night. So I slept. Well. But my evening for sure was ruined, at least subconsciously. 

I wake up this morning, go into the kitchen only for the washed pan in my dishwasher to remind me of my carelessness in not doing proactive research before deciding to become adventurous. Nevertheless, I had plans on calling the store and trying my luck in getting a replacement. However, a strange thing happened. I was reading this heart warming book by Mitch Olbom, Tuesday with Morrie. As I was learning through the pages, I happened to realize how materialistic I was in general. 

The pan cost me 200$. True.
I got the color of my choice in the size of my choice after so much trouble. True.
I do own only 4 pots in total in my kitchen. True that too. So ruining one, that too this soon will initiate some major discomfort in my mind, right? A small part of me wants to scream “ You’re goddamn right, RIGHT!”. Anyways. 

I have made a decision to make this burnt pan of mine as a memento, in the kitchen. A beautiful, white-enameled-exterior-burnt-and-scrubbed-off-black-enameled-inside type of memento that will forever, now on, remind me of the important things in life. Firstly, to be mindful. To focus on things that matter the most. I am quite sure as hell that I wouldn’t be thinking about burnt dishes in the death bed. Not that I am gonna go on a spree of charing stuff around the home just because it wouldn’t matter at the end of life, but quite the opposite. Live each moment, fully. I made the salsa, a great one, that too. And, I deserved to enjoy the moment. But did I?

So from now on, I plan to enjoy the salsa and live happily through the compliments that tag along. And if I burnt a pan in the process, then make a worthy effort trying to fix it, and if all fails, accept the lost cause with dignity and move on. 
So I’m heading to the store tomorrow morning to grab a gold platter stand. I place the pan on it along with a handwritten, dated note to my future self that reads “Enjoy the salsa first, even if the pan gets burnt.”

Yours lovingly,
The great salsa cook.


